Mule-1 cold flow and first hotfire test conducted with N2O and paraffin wax at the Malahat Fish and Game range.

It was an extremely cold that day (0C, with massive snowdrifts covering the entire test site) meaning N2O saturation pressure was much lower than desirable. While packing the night before, it was discovered that the injector snap ring was missing, likely lost at the previous hot fire. Additionally, the phenolic liner had been cracked and a replacement was not able to be cut to length. This resulted in two failures during the test. To replace the snap ring on short notice, a replacement was cut out of stainless steel sheet on the UVic Machine Shop water jet using the McMaster DXF. The cracked phenolic liner was attempted to be repaired with epoxy to seal the crack and by drilling a hole at thebase of the crack to remove the stress concentration.

The test's purpose was the determine if the JSauce composite material was acceptable to be used as material to construct the nozzle for Mule-2. To this end a throat insert for the Mule-1 engine's nozzle was cast from the material. It was removed from the mold the day before and allowed to air cure before the test.

During the hotfire (data0) all four of the three above failure modes occured. Filling of the system was completed without issue, aside from the rock slide which deposited several large boulders a few meters from the PDP. Once the engine was ignited the oxidizer was allowed to flow into the engine. We do not know specifically what happened but the end result was the nozzle insert being breaking from the pressure and increasing in diameter by ~7mm. The phenolic liner also failed with the pressure causing the crack to propogate and shatter the liner, releasing the pressure into the engine casing causing a subsequent failure in the snap ring as wax was pushed up throught it around the injector. At this point Mule-1 is not operational without the replacement of the snap ring and the phenolic. All of these resulting in a non-nominal firing with the engine not achieving stable combustion and much lower than expected thrust.